feat(docs): react vite websockets guide (#5735)
winglang/wing: docs/docs/08-guides/03-react-vite-websockets.md

Author: still need to review consistency for `;`

keywords: [Websockets, React, Vite, Local, Wing]
---

# React, Vite & Websockets 

In this guide, we will go through the process of building a simple React webpage that connects to a Wing backend.

The webpage will showcase a counter that can be incremented by clicking on it. This counter will increment a distributed counter deployed via the Wing backend. We will also demonstrate how to get real-time updates from the backend to the browser every time the counter is updated from any other webpage, using Websockets.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20 or later.
- Wing has extended support for two IDEs. They provide syntax highlighting, completions, go-to-definition, etc. and embedded Wing Console support:

  - [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Monada.vscode-wing) - Official extension
  - [IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22353-wing) - Community extension

## Step 1 - Installation & Scaffolding
In this step, we will be creating our project by setting up two folders:

 - `backend` - The place for Wing's backend code
 - `frontend` - The place for our React app code

### Creating a React App with Vite

1. Create the root project folder:
 ```sh

>  mkdir /tmp/confjs-wing-react

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 mkdir ~/shared-counter
```

I wouldn't be opinionated about where this app needs to go. At any rate, `/tmp` is weird... If you need this to be explicit, I'd use `~/confjs..`

It also makes more sense to give this a more "real" name.

 cd /tmp/confjs-wing-react
 ```

> 2. Create a new React app using Vite under the frontend folder:

Author: IMO, it is a react app the toolchain is vite. But vite is not the frameowrk

 ```sh
 npm create vite frontend -- --template react-ts
 ```
3. Run your React app and ensure it works:
 ```sh
 cd frontend
 npm install
 npm run dev
 ```

> > The result should be a very simple webpage that runs locally and works without any backend (note the counter is not shared between tabs).

Reviewer: is there a counter at this point?

Author: yes, it is the default react app that vite provides

4. Press Ctrl-C to return to the CLI prompt.

> ### Creating a New Wing App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a Wing backend
```

1. Install Wing:
 ```sh
 npm install -g winglang
 # Verify installation
 wing -V 
 ```
2. Create a `backend` directory under the project root:
 ```sh

>  mkdir /tmp/confjs-wing-react/backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 mkdir ~/wing-hello-vite/backend
```

 cd /tmp/confjs-wing-react/backend
 ```
3. Generate a new empty Wing project:
 ```sh
 wing new empty
 ```
> This will generate three files: `package.json`, `package-lock.json` and `main.w` file with a simple hello-world `Cloud.Function`
4. Run this project inside Wing Simulator
```sh
wing run main.w
```
> The result should be a page shows a single `Cloud.Function` if you invoke it, it should show `hello, world` in the response section.

> 5. Ctrl-C to go back to CLI prompt.

Reviewer: ?? why not leave the console open?

Author: I'll review the flow in a dry run, will re-examine this

## Step 2 - Hello `@winglibs/vite` 

In the previous step, we used `npm run dev` to start the local web server. 
In this step, we will install the `@winglibs/vite` package responsible for starting the dev server. 
We will also pass information from the backend to the frontend.

### Install and Use `@winglibs/vite`

1. Install `@winglibs/vite`:
 ```sh
 cd /tmp/confjs-wing-react/backend
 npm i -s @winglibs/vite
 ```
1. Bring and instantiate Vite in `backend/main.w`:
 ```wing
 bring vite;
 
 new vite.Vite(
   root:"../frontend"
 );
 ```
3. Run this project inside the Wing Simulator:
 ```sh
 wing run main.w
 ```
> You should have 2 web pages open: the browser and the Wing Console, showing the simulator.

> ### Using `publicEnv` for Constant Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sending data to your Vite app using `publicEnv`
```

Now that we have our backend instantiate the Vite resource, 
we would like to see how we can pass constant data from the backend to the frontend.

1. Use `publicEnv` for the title in `backend/main.w:
 ```wing
 bring vite;
 
 new vite.Vite(
   root:"../frontend",
   publicEnv: {
     title: "Wing + Vite + React"
   }
 );
 ```

> 2. Notice that the React webpage now has `window.wing.env` containing this title.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Notice that the React webpage now has `window.wing.env` containing this title. 
You can verify it by opening javascript console under developer tools and running `console.log(window.wing.env);`
```

> 2. Notice that the React webpage now has `window.wing.env` containing this title.

Reviewer: "notice" how?

4. Read `window.wing.env.title` in `frontend/src/App.tsx` by looking for `<h1>Vite + React</h1>` and replacing it with `<h1>{window.wing.env.title}</h1>`.

> 5. Upon saving both the wing file and the TypeScript file, you should see the new title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Upon saving both the Wing file and the TypeScript file, you should see the new title.
```

> ## Step 3 - Connect the Counter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3 - Adding a counter
```

> Now that we understand how to pass information from the backend to the frontend, we will create an API Gateway on the backend and provide the frontend code with a URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we understand how to pass information from the backend to the frontend, we will create a backend API endpoint and provide the frontend code with a URL.
```

On the frontend, we will switch from using a local counter to a backend-based counter.

> ### Creating a Counter and Access/Modify Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a counter and read/update API routes
```

> 1. Instantiate an API gateway in `backend/main.w` by adding the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Instantiate a `cloud.Api` in `backend/main.w` by adding the following code:
```

```wing
bring vite;
bring cloud;

> let api = new cloud.Api(cors:true);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let api = new cloud.Api(cors: true);
```

new vite.Vite(

>   root:"../frontend",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  root: "../frontend",
```

  publicEnv: {
    title: "Wing + Vite + React",

>     api_url: api.url

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    API_URL: api.url
```

  }
);
```

> Notice that we've added api_url to the client's environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we've a new environment variable called `API_URL` which points to the URL of our API endpoint.
```

2. Now, let's also instantiate a `cloud.Counter`:
 
```wing
let counter = new cloud.Counter();
``` 
3. Add the following routes:
  - A `GET /counter` for retrieving the counter value (using `counter.peek()`)
  ```wing
  api.get("/counter", inflight () => {
    return {

>       status:200, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is not needed anymore :-)

      body: "{counter.peek()}"
    };
  });
  ```

>   - A `POST /counterInc` for incrementing the counter (using `counter.inc()`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A `POST /counter` for incrementing the counter (using `counter.inc()`)
```

  ```wing

>   api.post("/counterInc", inflight () => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  api.post("/counter", inflight () => {
```

    let oldValue = counter.inc();
    return {

>       status:200, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: ```suggestion
      status: 200, 
```

      body: "{oldValue + 1}"
    };
  });
  ```
4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

> ### Setup `App.tsx`  Code to Use the Above Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit `App.tsx` to call our backend
```

Let's modify our frontend code to fetch and update the counter value using the routes defined above.

> 1. First, store the `api_url` in some variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, store the `API_URL` in some variable:
```

Author: thanks!

```ts

> const API_URL = window.wing.env.api_url;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
```

```
2. Then, lets use React hooks to update the counter data:
```ts
function App() {

>   const API_URL = window.wing.env.api_url;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
```

  const [count, setCount] = useState("NA")
  const incrementCount = async () => {

>     const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counterInc`, {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counter`, {
```

      method: "POST"
    });
    setCount(await response.text()); 
  }
  const getCount = async () => {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counter`);
    setCount(await response.text()); 
  }
  useEffect(() => {
    getCount();
}, []);
```
**Note:** To use `useEffect`, you need to import it from React as well:
```ts

> import { useState, useEffect } from 'react'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
```

```
3. Now, let's trigger the `incrementCount` function when the user clicks to increment the counter:
```ts
   <button onClick={incrementCount}>
```

For convenience, here is the entire `App.tsx` file:

```ts

> import { useState, useEffect } from 'react'

Reviewer: annoying nit: non-consistent `;` everywhere

import reactLogo from './assets/react.svg'
import viteLogo from '/vite.svg'
import './App.css'

function App() {

>   const API_URL = window.wing.env.api_url;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
```

  const [count, setCount] = useState("NA")
  const incrementCount = async () => {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counterInc`, {
      method: "POST"
    });
    setCount(await response.text()); 

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  };
```

  const getCount = async () => {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counter`);
    setCount(await response.text()); 

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  };
```

  useEffect(() => {
    getCount();
  }, []);
  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <a href="https://vitejs.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={viteLogo} className="logo" alt="Vite logo" />
        </a>
        <a href="https://react.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={reactLogo} className="logo react" alt="React logo" />
        </a>
      </div>
      <h1>{window.wing.env.title}</h1>
      <div className="card">
        <button onClick={incrementCount}>
          count is {count}
        </button>
        <p>
          Edit <code>src/App.tsx</code> and save to test HMR
        </p>
      </div>
      <p className="read-the-docs">
        Click on the Vite and React logos to learn more
      </p>
    </>

>   )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  );
```

}

> export default App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default App;
```

```

> 4. One you have the code update you can examine both the webpage and the console to see how the counter gets incremented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. One you save the code, you can examine both the webpage and the console to see how the counter gets incremented.
```

> ## Step 4 - Use `@winglibs/websockets`

Reviewer: As much as it's amazing, I think you won't have time for websockets so either put it as "extra credit" or just remove for now.

Author: I am doing a dry run today with @revitalbarletz, lets see how it goes.

id: react-vite-websockets
keywords: [Websockets, React, Vite, Local, Wing]
---

# React, Vite & Websockets 

In this guide, we will go through the process of building a simple React webpage that connects to a Wing backend.

The webpage will showcase a counter that can be incremented by clicking on it. This counter will increment a distributed counter deployed via the Wing backend. We will also demonstrate how to get real-time updates from the backend to the browser every time the counter is updated from any other webpage, using Websockets.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20 or later.
- Wing supports two popular IDEs with syntax highlighting, completions, go-to-definition and an embedded Wing Console:

  - [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Monada.vscode-wing) - Official extension
  - [IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22353-wing) - Community extension

## Step 1 - Installation & Scaffolding
In this step, we will be creating our project by setting up two folders:

 - `backend` - The place for Wing's backend code
 - `frontend` - The place for our React app code

### Creating a React App with Vite

1. Create the root project folder:
 ```sh

>  mkdir ~/shared-counter

Author: What?

 cd ~/shared-counter
 ```
2. Create a new React app using Vite under the frontend folder:
 ```sh
 npm create vite frontend -- --template react-ts
 ```
3. Run your React app and ensure it works:
 ```sh
 cd frontend
 npm install
 npm run dev
 ```
> The result should be a very simple webpage that runs locally and works without any backend (note the counter is not shared between tabs).

4. Press Ctrl-C to return to the CLI prompt.

### Creating a Wing backend

1. Install Wing:
 ```sh
 npm install -g winglang
 # Verify installation
 wing -V 
 ```
2. Create a `backend` directory under the project root:
 ```sh

>  mkdir ~/shared-counter/backend

Author: I know... but I thought to be more explicit

 cd ~/shared-counter/backend
 ```
3. Generate a new empty Wing project:
 ```sh
 wing new empty
 ```
> This will generate three files: `package.json`, `package-lock.json` and `main.w` file with a simple hello-world `Cloud.Function`
4. Run this project inside Wing Simulator
```sh
wing run main.w
```

> > The result should be a page shows a single `Cloud.Function` if you invoke it, it should show `hello, world` in the response section.

Author: ```suggestion
> The result should be a page shows a single `Cloud.Function`. Invoke it to see the the `hello, world` result in the response section.
```

> 5. Ctrl-C to go back to CLI prompt.

Reviewer 2: don't you want them to interact with the console - i see that it is just to click on the `invoke` button... should be easy and cool

## Step 2 - Hello `@winglibs/vite` 

In the previous step, we used `npm run dev` to start the local web server. 
In this step, we will install the `@winglibs/vite` package responsible for starting the dev server. 
We will also pass information from the backend to the frontend.

### Install and use `@winglibs/vite`

> Open VScode / Intellij on the project directory.

Author: ```suggestion
Open VScode / Intellij on the project directory.

```

1. Install `@winglibs/vite`:
 ```sh
 cd ~/shared-counter/backend
 npm i -s @winglibs/vite

>  ```

Reviewer 2: you are missing a step - open VScode / Intellij

> 1. Bring and instantiate Vite in `backend/main.w`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.  Bring and instantiate Vite in `backend/main.w`:
```

 ```wing
 bring vite;
 
 new vite.Vite(
   root:"../frontend"
 );
 ```
3. Run this project inside the Wing Simulator:
 ```sh
 wing run main.w
 ```

> > You should have 2 web pages open: the browser and the Wing Console, showing the simulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> You should have 2 web pages open: the React web application and the Wing Console, showing the simulator.
```

### Sending data to your Vite app using `publicEnv`

Now that we have our backend instantiate the Vite resource, 
we would like to see how we can pass constant data from the backend to the frontend.

> 1. Use `publicEnv` for the title in `backend/main.w:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use `publicEnv` in order to pass `title` from the backend to the frontend. In `backend/main.w:
```

 ```wing
 bring vite;
 
 new vite.Vite(
   root:"../frontend",
   publicEnv: {
     title: "Wing + Vite + React"
   }
 );
 ```

> 2. Notice that the React webpage now has `window.wing.env` containing this title. 

Reviewer 2: it is written in a confusing way in my opinion:
```
2. Our frontend application now has a new `title` property in `window.wing.env` object. Open the browser's developer tools console and run: `console.log(window.wing.env.title);` to see it's value.
```

Author: moved to async discussion, resolving

You can verify it by opening javascript console under developer tools and running `console.log(window.wing.env);`

> 4. Read `window.wing.env.title` in `frontend/src/App.tsx` by looking for `<h1>Vite + React</h1>` and replacing it with `<h1>{window.wing.env.title}</h1>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Use `window.wing.env.title` in `frontend/src/App.tsx`. Look for `<h1>Vite + React</h1>` and replace it with `<h1>{window.wing.env.title}</h1>`.
```

5. Upon saving both the Wing file and the TypeScript file, you should see the new title.

## Step 3 - Adding a counter

Now that we understand how to pass information from the backend to the frontend, we will create a backend API endpoint and provide the frontend code with a URL.
On the frontend, we will switch from using a local counter to a backend-based counter.

### Creating a counter and read/update API routes

1. Instantiate a `cloud.Api` in `backend/main.w` by adding the following code:
```wing
bring vite;
bring cloud;

let api = new cloud.Api(cors: true);

new vite.Vite(
  root: "../frontend",
  publicEnv: {
    title: "Wing + Vite + React",
    API_URL: api.url
  }
);
```

> Notice that we've a new environment variable called `API_URL` which points to the URL of our API endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that we added a new environment variable called `API_URL` to our frontend application which points to the URL of our API endpoint.
```

2. Now, let's also instantiate a `cloud.Counter`:
 
```wing
let counter = new cloud.Counter();
``` 
3. Add the following routes:
  - A `GET /counter` for retrieving the counter value (using `counter.peek()`)
  ```wing
  api.get("/counter", inflight () => {
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{counter.peek()}"
    };
  });
  ```
  - A `POST /counter` for incrementing the counter (using `counter.inc()`)
  ```wing
  api.post("/counter", inflight () => {
    let oldValue = counter.inc();
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{oldValue + 1}"
    };
  });
  ```

> 4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

Reviewer 2: you are using the terms Wing Console and Wing Simulator for the same product... I think you should choose one.

> 4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

Reviewer 2: do you want to tell them how to test the endpoints?

Author: done

### Edit `App.tsx` to call our backend
Let's modify our frontend code to fetch and update the counter value using the routes defined above.

> 

Reviewer 2: in app.tsx ....

Author: added to the next line

1. First, store the `API_URL` in some variable:
```ts
const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
```
2. Then, lets use React hooks to update the counter data:
```ts
function App() {

>   const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;

Reviewer 2: why do you need to define it twice? in row 179 you are instructing the user to define it

Author: done

import './App.css'

function App() {
  const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
  const [count, setCount] = useState("NA")
  const incrementCount = async () => {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counter`, {
      method: "POST"
    });
    setCount(await response.text()); 
  };
  const getCount = async () => {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_URL}/counter`);
    setCount(await response.text()); 
  };
  useEffect(() => {
    getCount();
  }, []);
  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <a href="https://vitejs.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={viteLogo} className="logo" alt="Vite logo" />
        </a>
        <a href="https://react.dev" target="_blank">
          <img src={reactLogo} className="logo react" alt="React logo" />
        </a>
      </div>
      <h1>{window.wing.env.title}</h1>
      <div className="card">
        <button onClick={incrementCount}>
          count is {count}
        </button>
        <p>
          Edit <code>src/App.tsx</code> and save to test HMR
        </p>
      </div>
      <p className="read-the-docs">
        Click on the Vite and React logos to learn more
      </p>
    </>
  );
}

export default App;
```

> 4. One you save the code, you can examine both the webpage and the console to see how the counter gets incremented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Once you save the code, you can examine both the webpage and the console to see how the counter gets incremented.
```

## Step 4 - Create a broadcasting service using `@winglibs/websockets` 

In the current implementation when we open two browser side by side, we only
see the counter latest value upon refresh. In this step we will be deploying a broadcasting service
that utilize a websocket server on the backend, and connecting to that websocket from the clients. 

When the counter is incremented, the broadcaster service will notify all clients that they need to fetch a 
new value from our API.

### Create a Broadcaster class

> The Broadcaster class contains two public API:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Broadcaster class contains two public API endpoints:
```

- a public websocket URL that will be sent to clients

> - a `inflight` broadcast message, that send a message to all clients connected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- an `inflight` broadcast message, that sends a message to all connected clients
```

1. We will be using `@winglibs/websockets`, so lets first install it
```sh
npm i -s @winglibs/websockets
```
2. Lets create a new file `backend/broadcaster.w`, and implement it:
```wing
bring cloud;
bring websockets;

pub class Broadcaster {
  pub wsUrl: str;
  wb: websockets.WebSocket;
  db: cloud.Bucket;
  new() {
    this.wb = new websockets.WebSocket(name: "MyWebSocket") as "my-websocket";
    this.wsUrl = this.wb.url;
    this.db = new cloud.Bucket();
  
    this.wb.onConnect(inflight(id: str): void => {
      this.db.put(id, "");
    });

    this.wb.onDisconnect(inflight(id: str): void => {
      this.db.delete(id);
    });

  }
  pub inflight broadcast(messgae: str) {
    for id in this.db.list() {
      this.wb.sendMessage(id, messgae);
    }
  }
}
```

> 3. On our `backend/main.w` file lets instantiate the broadcasting service:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In our `backend/main.w` file lets instantiate the broadcasting service:
```

```wing
bring "./broadcaster.w" as b;

let broadcaster = new b.Broadcaster();
```
4. Send the websocket url to the client
```wing
new vite.Vite(
  root: "../frontend",
  publicEnv: {
    title: "Wing + Vite + React",
    API_URL: api.url,
    WS_URL: broadcaster.wsUrl // <-- This is new
  }
);
```

> 5. Also, lets send a broadcast "refresh" command every time we increment the counter, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Also, lets send a broadcast "refresh" message every time we increment the counter, 
```

---
title: React, Vite & Websockets 
id: react-vite-websockets
keywords: [Websockets, React, Vite, Local, Wing]
---

# React, Vite & Websockets 

In this guide, we will build a simple React web application with a Wing backend.

The webapp will have a counter that can be incremented by clicking on it. This counter will increment a distributed counter deployed via the Wing backend. We will also demonstrate how to use websockets in order to get real-time updates from the backend every time the counter is updated from any other webpage.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20 or later.
- Wing supports two popular IDEs with syntax highlighting, completions, go-to-definition and an embedded Wing Console:

  - [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Monada.vscode-wing) - Official extension
  - [IntelliJ](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22353-wing) - Community extension

## Step 1 - Installation & Scaffolding

> In this step, we will be creating our project by setting up two folders:
> 
>  - `backend` - The place for Wing's backend code
>  - `frontend` - The place for our React app code

Author: ```suggestion
In this step, we will be creating our project.

```

4. Press Ctrl-C to return to the CLI prompt.

### Creating a Wing backend

1. Install Wing:
 ```sh
 npm install -g winglang
 # Verify installation
 wing -V 
 ```
2. Create a `backend` directory under the project root:
 ```sh
 mkdir ~/shared-counter/backend
 cd ~/shared-counter/backend
 ```
3. Generate a new empty Wing project:
 ```sh
 wing new empty
 ```
> This will generate three files: `package.json`, `package-lock.json` and `main.w` file with a simple hello-world `Cloud.Function`
4. Run this project inside Wing Simulator
```sh
wing run main.w
```
> The result should be a page shows a single `Cloud.Function` if you invoke it, it should show `hello, world` in the response section.
5. Invoke the cloud.Function to see that response.
6. Ctrl-C to go back to CLI prompt.

## Step 2 - Hello `@winglibs/vite` 

In the previous step, we used `npm run dev` to start the local web server. 
In this step, we will install the `@winglibs/vite` package responsible for starting the dev server. 
We will also pass information from the backend to the frontend.

### Install and use `@winglibs/vite`

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Open VScode / Intellij on the project directory.
```

On the frontend, we will switch from using a local counter to a backend-based counter.

### Creating a counter and read/update API routes

1. Instantiate a `cloud.Api` in `backend/main.w` by adding the following code:
```wing
bring vite;
bring cloud;

let api = new cloud.Api(cors: true);

new vite.Vite(
  root: "../frontend",
  publicEnv: {
    title: "Wing + Vite + React",
    API_URL: api.url
  }
);
```
Notice that we added a new environment variable called `API_URL` to our frontend application which points to the URL of our API endpoint.

2. Now, let's also instantiate a `cloud.Counter`:
 
```wing
let counter = new cloud.Counter();
``` 
3. Add the following routes:
  - A `GET /counter` for retrieving the counter value (using `counter.peek()`)
  ```wing
  api.get("/counter", inflight () => {
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{counter.peek()}"
    };
  });
  ```
  - A `POST /counter` for incrementing the counter (using `counter.inc()`)
  ```wing
  api.post("/counter", inflight () => {
    let oldValue = counter.inc();
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{oldValue + 1}"
    };
  });
  ```

> 4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

> You can click on the API and use the right side panel to test the endpoints, 
you can also examine the Counter value or even modify it.
```

  root: "../frontend",
  publicEnv: {
    title: "Wing + Vite + React",
    API_URL: api.url
  }
);
```
Notice that we added a new environment variable called `API_URL` to our frontend application which points to the URL of our API endpoint.

2. Now, let's also instantiate a `cloud.Counter`:
 
```wing
let counter = new cloud.Counter();
``` 
3. Add the following routes:
  - A `GET /counter` for retrieving the counter value (using `counter.peek()`)
  ```wing
  api.get("/counter", inflight () => {
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{counter.peek()}"
    };
  });
  ```
  - A `POST /counter` for incrementing the counter (using `counter.inc()`)
  ```wing
  api.post("/counter", inflight () => {
    let oldValue = counter.inc();
    return {
      status: 200, 
      body: "{oldValue + 1}"
    };
  });
  ```
4. Experiment with the Wing Simulator to see that these routes work as expected.

> You can click on the API and use the right side panel to test the endpoints, 
you can also examine the Counter value or even modify it.

### Edit `App.tsx` to call our backend
Let's modify our frontend code to fetch and update the counter value using the routes defined above.

> 1. First, store the `API_URL` in some variable:

Author: ```suggestion
1. First, store the `API_URL` in some variable in `frontend/src/App.tsx`:
```

```ts
const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;
```
2. Then, lets use React hooks to update the counter data:
```ts
function App() {

>   const API_URL = window.wing.env.API_URL;

Author: ```suggestion
// ...
```
